# Credit-card-fraud-detection-

Due to rapid growth in the field of cashless transactions or digital transactions, credit cards are widely used in almost every work and hence there are more chances of fraudulent transactions. These fraudulent transactions can be identified by analyzing various behaviors of credit card customers from previous transaction history datasets. If any deviation is noticed in the behavior from the available patterns, there is the possibility of fraudulent transaction. Machine learning techniques are widely used to detect the frauds. In this paper, we have used KNN technique to detect the frauds .The performance of this techniques is evaluated based on the accuracy, sensitivity, precision and recall.

**DATA DESCRIPTION**
In this project, we have used a Kaggle provided dataset of simulated mobile based payment transactions. We analyze this data by categorizing it with respect to different types of transactions it contains. We also perform PCA - Principal Component Analysis - to visualize the variability of data in two dimensional spaces. The datasets contain transactions made by credit cards in September 2013 by European cardholders. These dataset present transactions that occurred in two days, where we have 492 frauds out of 284,807 transactions. The dataset is highly unbalanced, the positive class (frauds) account for 0.172% of all transactions. It contains only numerical input variables which are the result of a PCA transformation. Unfortunately, due to confidentiality issues, we cannot provide the original features and more background information about the data. Features V1, V2, V28 are the principal components obtained with PCA, the only features which have not been transformed with PCA are 'Time' and 'Amount'. Feature 'Time' contains the seconds elapsed between each transaction and the first transaction in the dataset. The feature 'Amount' is the transaction Amount, this feature can be used for example dependent cost-sensitive learning. Feature 'Class' is the response variable and it takes value 1 in case of fraud and 0 otherwise.


**K-Nearest Neighbour Algorithm:**
Here we have used K – nearest neighbour which is having better accuracy than other algorithms for fraud detection. 
The concept of K-nearest neighbour analysis has been used in several anomaly detection techniques. One of the best classifier algorithms that have been used in the credit card fraud detection is k- nearest neighbour algorithm that is a supervised learning algorithm where the result of new instance query is classified based on majority of K-Nearest Neighbour category. The performance of KNN algorithm is influenced by three main factors: The distance metric used to locate the nearest neighbours. The distance rule used to derive a classification from k-nearest neighbour. The number of neighbours used to classify the new sample. Among the various credit card fraud detection methods of supervised statistical pattern recognition, the K Nearest Neighbour rule achieves consistently high performance, without a priori assumptions about the distributions from which the training examples are drawn. K- Nearest neighbour based credit card fraud detection techniques require a distance or similar the measure defined between two data instances.

**CONCLUSION **
Credit  card  fraud  is  without  a  doubt  an  act  of  criminal dishonesty.  This  article  has  listed  out  the  most  common methods  of  fraud  along  with  their  detection  methods  and reviewed  recent  findings  in  this  field.  This  paper  has  also explained in detail, how machine learning can  be applied to get better results in fraud detection along with the algorithm, pseudocode,  explanation  its  implementation  and experimentation results. While  the  algorithm  does  reach  over  99.6%  accuracy,  its precision remains only at 28% when a tenth of the data set is taken into consideration. However, when the entire dataset is fed into the  algorithm, the precision rises to 33%.  This high percentage  of  accuracy  is  to  be  expected  due  to  the  huge imbalance  between  the  number  of  valid  and  number  of genuine transactions.
